you don't accept that like all you get
to control is whether you roll the dice
what you're putting on your shoulders
is the burden of what the role is
actually going to be you're saying i
want to create this thing
to take away people's pain and that's
why you work so hard that's awesome
but then you beat yourself up if for
some reason you feel like it's not
working or it's not good enough
how's it going man going good man how's
it going
good um so and and what do i call you
friend
whatever you want arcadium uh arcade
if you like pronounced arcade but don't
worry
i there is there is a 16 long copy pasta
how many different ways people have said
the name so it's fine so
jeremy or arcadium yeah that's fine cool
man better
and and thanks for coming on so much
thanks for being supportive
of us and everything um is there
something in particular
is is it okay if i call you jeremy is
that cool yeah that's fine
okay um so jeremy can you tell me a
little bit about what you want to talk
about today if there's anything that we
can help you with
uh well i think the biggest thing um
is uh kind of like a i guess
i guess it's a dual like pronged thing
because the first thing is i deal with a
lot of uh imposter syndrome stuff
okay and i didn't even know i didn't
even know what that was called
until then uh and like until like
i don't know like eight months ago or
something like that i didn't even know
that term existed or even
and uh the other thing was
how
i guess in in addition to that um
to deal with the the burden of
responsibility that has just grown
larger and larger what is that
can you tell me what what burden you're
talking about
well specifically um i've always been in
a position of
pseudo leadership because uh dungeon
master is the arbitrator of the game
and gets everybody together and arranges
everything
but i don't know over the past three
months
the uh the weight
of all the additional stuff on top of
that has just been weighing on me a lot
well what's can you help us understand
what additional stuff has been weighing
on
okay i'm gonna try and
put this in a way that i can explain
what i'm going through
so essentially
i judge a master for nine different
groups right now
wow uh i know it's uh roughly about 40
people
if you count the guest stars and then
there is
all the people in my discord which when
i you know got my channel started
i wanted to run an mmo like d d sort of
mud thing in my in my discord like to
thank the subs and for the stuff that
sounds
awesome man that's pretty sick but uh
the problem is is that um
i i am a dungeon master not like a
administrator
and all these other skill sets i don't
actually have so i had to like learn
those on the fly
and of course i wanted to do it right
and i wanted to do it well
so i had to learn a bunch of stuff that
i wasn't really ready to learn and i
made
you know mistakes along the way but it
got to the point now
to where it's uh
not only has my actual twitch growth
gotten to this point to where there's a
lot of people depending on me for their
entertainment but
it's it's somehow increased even more
because
the players that i have many of them
don't stream the games
that we play they depend on me for
their own release their own freedom from
from their daily routine you know to
play and to
have fun but because they get so into it
their communities do too and then they
follow them and then
it's that pressure has just kept
building and building
and building on top of it and um
i'm not afraid of a little hard work the
military put that in me but
the the problem i think is is that i
don't know there's just
this voice in my head telling me i'm not
doing good enough
i guess how long does that
yes so beautifully put so first thing i
want to say jeremy is it's an
absolute pleasure to talk to it dungeon
master
explain what their experience is because
even your storytelling
you know your brain is wired to tell a
beautiful story
yeah you take a couple seconds to think
about how you're gonna start and how
you're gonna finish
um it's unfortunate that the story is
you know one of
of burden and and happiness
i i guess i i do want to be clear i'm
not
ungrateful for anything or or even that
it's a really a bad
thing you know i i mean i i don't really
view it negatively in
its entirety because it it like you were
mentioning something earlier uh
on your intro um uh the the
it was a hinduism term that you said
yeah uh i
i know that as ikigai from the japanese
term
which is essentially i think similar to
what that means
which is you know what you can get paid
for what you're good at
what serves the world and what gives you
inner peace you find that
and that's what your purpose in life is
and i was fortunate enough
to find that when i was 13 years old
so i've been doing the i knew exactly
what i wanted to be
right when that happened can you tell us
about that
yeah sure um so i guess
this has a little bit of extra context
to it um
i'm not sure how heavy we want to get
but suffice to say i grew up
in the deep south in a uh
in a place that was not tolerant of
anything
it didn't matter what it was it you know
d and d least of all
and um i uh
specifically at the time i was living in
a literal junkyard
in a trailer with tainted well water and
you know
in my opinion uh problems that
any american should be living in with
our wealth level but that's a whole
other thing
um but that's what i had to grow up with
so when i made some friends finally um
i would go to their house and i would
try to go there as much as possible
because
there was peace there and uh
and i never could find it for myself
when i uh you know when i inevitably
had to go back to my house
so while i was there one day we were
summer and we're just kind of laying
around doing nothing
my my best friend's dad came in
saw us kind of laying around i said all
right i'm going to teach you guys
something
and he sat us down and he taught me
second edition d
i cut my teeth on on a d and d yeah fake
o
all of it and uh after the first session
i knew it's exactly what i wanted to do
with the rest of my life
i didn't have a single doubt in my head
about it i knew that
this is what i want to do what was it
about a d and d that
resonated with you so deeply i was less
about what the system did it was
it was there was this one moment when i
forgot
who i was
but then i remembered what i did
and then it became a part of me and i
could
switch i could basically i guess dodge
the pain that i was feeling but in a way
that didn't feel like it was destructive
so so i guess
i guess uh i guess it was more like it
saved my life because i mean
it it gave me from that point forward
that's all i concentrated on
i didn't care about anything else it my
my my parents would be fighting tooth
and nail
in the middle of the kitchen breaking
stuff my sister would be crying and all
i could think about was dragons
it was what i needed and then eventually
you know i got through that
i joined the military i was taught how
to be a good person
and then after that i just went full
full force into it
how did you decide to join the military
i
escaped so 80 percent
escape 20 romanticized uh
like viewpoint of what the military is
which is you know everybody is rewarded
for their merits everyone acts right
everyone does the right thing because
it's the right thing you know
i of course was taught the truth that
since people are involved there will
always be all the things that make
people you know awful but for the most
part
the military was one of the best
decisions i ever made it taught me to be
an adult
because i certainly didn't learn from my
parents and more importantly i think
than anything else
it taught me the value of hard work
because until that point
i was taught um never work hard
steal if you can take from others
because they're suckers
and you can you can trick people
and uh i was taught how to do it and i
learned how to do it because i watched
what my parents would do
and why i watched what my family would
do and the people around me
i grew up in places where people made
excuses
rather than results you know things like
that
the military taught me that you can't
make an excuse
whenever you have a battle brother or
sister on the line
you know and i and i signed up during a
time the time of war so
i had to sit in a room look at a piece
of paper
and understand that if i signed it they
could imprison me for my incompetence
and kill me for my cowardice
and i took that seriously and after my
service was done
i was a i was a better person for it
wow yeah
if this is any indication of of your
storytelling capabilities you must make
one hell of it dungeon master
sorry no that's beautiful
it's quite it's quite the story man it's
yeah
you know i i'd want to call it beautiful
but it sounds like it's
it's got ugly pieces here and there to
be sure um
i i think i think a flaw in something is
what makes it beautiful too
you know nothing's perfect do you
remember
how you felt growing up with mom and dad
fighting
in one room with your sister crying
i have a lot of pieces of myself
that i've had to fight against i think
uh
i think probably the most intense one
is uh is this rage that started growing
in me
because like i said i grew up i grew up
around a lot of prejudice
i knew what a wizard was before d and d
if you understand what i mean by that
and uh
and i i was taught awful things
things that i know now aren't true
but i that's that's what like
it was when it's ingrained into your
head when you're a child
and you ex of course your elders and the
people
that love you you're you're you what
else do you have to go off of
you know you get taught those things and
then they become reality and it gets
really hard to change that and
i i think the reason that i chan i turn
that corner
you know at least racism-wise was the
first
actual person who didn't look like me
that i met
was nothing like i was told he was a
punk skater
he wore like uh punk music t-shirts
his name was tj and he did sweet kick
flips
that's it he's completely different he
was so cool man
i want to do kick flips so i changed
everything
so that's one of those what is the rage
tell me i don't see racism
sorry sorry sorry sorry that that was an
example of
because when i found out that i had been
lied to
that's when it started from that lie
because i uh
i didn't really have a childhood i grew
up really fast um
i know i wasn't really able to be naive
i think
uh it started with that that i knew that
people were lying to me and trying to
figure out who was lying to me made me
suspicious i think
and then when i actually started and
because i had that suspicion
you know my mother and father were no
longer
the um the bearers of truth and my
extended family
you know pillars of wisdom they were all
just
liars and cowards and i started seeing
it for what it was
i would see how my father in one hand
would tell me
uh you're doing a great job but then
would have such little faith
that i was going to perform the simplest
of tasks right that he would send my
little sister in to make sure i was
doing it right
he just destroyed my confidence
constantly
you know just one thing there that's
just an example and
all those little things kept piling up
and then the big things or my my
parents kept splitting up and um and i
was
forced to see violence i've had
everything happen to me
that most people have had happen to them
in some way all forms of
abuse all of them so
and i guess when i finally found
uh d and d i found that there is a place
where i can make things
the way i wanted them to be and that i
could bring joy to people through it
and it gave me a weapon a weapon i could
use against
the darkness so to speak and that's uh
that's what it did and now we get to the
burden of responsibility
yeah so what's the responsibility you
bear
jeremy
through the course of my career people
come to me
because they seek sanctuary like i did
all those years ago
whether it be uh
whether it just be to have some fun to
blow off some steam from work
or because they're trans and they want
to be the gender they want to be
and for a couple hours i can make it
true
or they can be strong and fast
smart and wise charismatic
pretty doesn't matter
i can make it true for a couple hours
and i take it seriously
even though in the end it's just a game
uh to me it's it's more than that it's a
it's a weapon against despair
which is why i have which is why i have
that dichotomy in my storytelling i
think
which dichotomy hope and despair
you said that you learned about this
term imposter syndrome recently
yeah uh specifically like uh i wanted i
think it was eight months ago
um but it was devin nash talked about it
and i was wondering what does that mean
and then i looked at i was like yeah
okay
and so that's me what features of
imposter syndrome
do you think apply to you or do you do
you identify with
well i don't even know if i have it but
this is this is what happens
to me is that i'll do something good and
then i cannot see
the success that i have even now like
the the level that i'm at right now i
don't even see it
because all i all i all i hear is that
whisper in the back of my head that it's
uh
not good enough and when i was in the
military i
i tried to cut out guilt completely out
of me
to combat it combat that voice but i
went too far in the other direction i
became a terrible person for it
i didn't care about anybody i just did
horrible things and i didn't feel any
guilt at all
and because i like forced it out of my
out of myself because i just didn't want
to feel guilty for doing the right thing
because i didn't do enough but that was
too far and
then i pulled back on and then i found a
decent balance
i think but now i think that that
the force multiplier of the size
of the weight is just
yeah makes the void like if the voice is
a percentage
of who i am because of the burden's
weight
the voice is louder now because it's
bigger i suppose can i think for a
second
yeah go ahead buddy
so jeremy we've got a fork in the road
yeah okay
and so you get to pick so one is i can
explain
the stats of the imposter syndrome
class and how does imposter syndrome
work how can we understand the mechanics
of it
it's going to be not an individual
character it's going to be a set of
rules in a rule book it's not
it may apply to you it may not it's just
the the diagram
of what imposter syndrome is and how it
feels and where it comes from
okay the other fork in the road is to
actually build a character which is you
right is to take this principle and we
don't have to do
but we don't have to do one or the other
it can be both i guess it's an
issue of sequence potentially but we can
ask you
more questions about you know the way
that you've managed guilt the way you've
dealt with your feelings
this sort of sense of burden of
responsibility we can we can talk about
you in a more specific sense
and in short i you know i think i i
already have a a decent hypothesis about
you know where a lot of your struggles
come from um
and we can kind of go more specifically
about you so do we want to explore the
character that is
jeremy or do we want to talk about the
class
imposter syndrome i mean you're the
you're the boss here which do you think
is better i'm the dm
but you're the pc so you get to choose
okay
uh finally get to play yes
um i guess
the second one okay so tell me
um tell me what uh
let me just try to find my question
because you gotta know the character
before you choose the class yeah
so you said that you tried to
cut guilt out yeah
right and and now what is it
you feel guilty or that you're not
good enough or you're gonna let people
down or what
well i suppose now because i because
cutting it out
completely wasn't the right call at all
now it's um
since the stakes are so high and since
i've
pulled off things that a lot of people
can't even believe
that someone can do there's now this uh
this
this rising bar of expectation
where i can't falter at all i can't make
mistakes
because if i do then
faith turns on its heel and
from my experience early in my career i
can see how quickly that
that faith can turn to just
distrust and just some awful stuff so
what do you mean by that
well like uh
i have an example here so uh in the
early days
of my career before i went professional
like i started charging
i did a couple of side campaigns and one
of the side campaigns i
uh told people that i would try to
prepare everything for them and so
because i told them that hey don't worry
about it i'll do this
they just tried to challenge me because
they just started doing random stuff
and then it got to the point to where i
just
i just couldn't keep up because they
would literally try to make me wrong
and so whenever the time came that one
of them did something
and i didn't have it ready for them they
said i knew you couldn't do it
and then i felt like i failed them even
though now i know that that person's
that person's just an [ __ ] but now i
know that it's
yeah i only know that now then i felt
like i let him down
okay completely so i understand we just
got a rate from
anita so um
i'm just gonna include people in so you
want to introduce yourself jeremy to
the yeah sure sure hello i am arcadium i
am a
professional dungeon master on twitch.tv
uh
i like you wow
yeah that's all so uh well welcome guys
um so we're big fans of anita
here at healthy gamer i'm dr k so we're
talking to arcadium today about
um sort of hi so as he's grown more
successful he feels some
sense of like imposter syndrome which is
that despite
the world telling him that he's doing a
good job
the more the world tells him that he's
doing a good job
the stronger the voice in his head
becomes
that it's all going to come crashing
down or that there's something that
people don't understand or things like
that
um i mean i know you haven't sort of
said that explicitly but that's
i'm basing that pretty much it i'm
basing that on the the class description
yeah yeah um so i want to just highlight
what you just said
jeremy because you kind of said that you
know you told people hey i'm going to
take care of everything and then they
set on a quest to prove you wrong
and they're going to do that right yeah
yeah and then
there's the statement that they said i
know you couldn't
do it yeah
how does that statement relate to the
voice in your head that you would
describe as imposter syndrome
well
i suppose what i what i what i would
equate to that is um
they said they knew that they couldn't
do it now i know why that person said
that now
and yeah more often because you know all
that but i guess at the in that moment
i just heard my dad i think more than
anything else
because you know he would tell me i
could do anything
and then not have any faith in me at all
that i would
uh in the same breath so i'm glad you
made that connection
because beautiful um right because i i'm
i'm envisioning that story where
you know your dad would tell you to do
something and he would send your sister
with you because
he sort of yeah and and so
when we think about you know and now if
we sort of start to connect the dots and
we think a little bit
about imposter syndrome like
what you know you so despite your
success and despite
you you being aware that you can do it
there lives within you a voice that
tells you
that you can't so then the question
becomes if we want to understand the
voices inside us right because like this
is the thing is that
we live our lives and we're like
hopefully functioning adults or even if
we're not really functioning adults
it doesn't really matter we know we're
capable of some things we have evidence
that we're capable of some things
and there are voices that we carry with
us
and so if you want to overcome that
voice that you carry with you
i think the biggest thing to understand
is to understand like we know where did
you learn that
and to understand it it's interesting
jeremy because you say that
now looking back on it you can
understand even though
you know you felt bad in that moment you
recognize that that was his problem
that's not yours
if he sets out to you know screw you
over when you're
dming a campaign like he'll he'll make
people not have fun
right like pcs can do that no matter how
strong you are as a dungeon master
an [ __ ] pc can ruin a game for you if
they really want to
yeah um and and so i think
you know it's interesting because you
say that you tried to cut out guilt and
i think that
you sort of formed a very strong version
of yourself
through the military you learned a lot
about yourself you learned a lot about
how to be a good person but you know
despite
all of that growth like wounds still
need to be healed
you know if if i'm sitting at half
health and i level up and i
gain eight hit points and then i level
up again and i gain eight hit points
it doesn't matter like that damage is
still there and the damage has to be
healed
and what i hear is a guy who was running
around at half health who's been
leveling up a lot
but at the end of the day never healed
that
initial wound yeah
and so i think the the issue is going to
be like
you know when you feel like you can't do
it
is that your dad's voice
is it yours
i suppose i uh my father's a part of me
whether i want it or not so it's
probably mine
and so what do you tell yourself
well what i've been doing lately to deal
with it
and it's probably not healthy but it's
the only thing that
that uh seems to quiet it
is that uh each time
i hit a point it'll say you can't do
better i'll do better
and then it's quiet for a while and then
it comes back and it's quiet for a while
just keep
hitting it down now i guess it helps
because i keep
doing better i don't know it's it's
really it's really strange to put it
into words
um it's almost like uh
i've got like a shadow in my mind a
demon if you will
and i live a good life out of spite of
it
just despite it yep you know so it's
i don't know it doesn't really come from
i guess in that particular instance it
doesn't come from like a place of
love and understanding and compassion as
i would like it to be it's just
from spite competitiveness i guess
yeah so now we come to another feature
of the character class of imposter
syndrome
which is that it's actually adaptive
towards success
so it actually even though it tortures
us
from an objective level it actually
helps us succeed
so i see imposter syndrome a lot like a
good example is in the investment
banking field
you get you know 22 year olds who end up
at goldman sachs they move to new york
and they live the life of a banker
and you know at the age of 22 they're
making 250k
and then suddenly it's like from
no money to 250k a year can feel like
and then the imposter syndrome hits and
it tells them
you can't do better look at this other
person he's doing better than you
you're fake you know people haven't
realized
and then they they do exactly what you
did which is they fight the voice and
they try to overcome it
and it does quiet it for a while and it
certainly improves you
right like like you you grow in
objective success
but then the voice comes back so here's
the question when when the voice says
you can't do better why do you have to
prove it wrong
i suppose um
the reason that i i do that specifically
the reason that i have to prove it wrong
is because
i'll start to believe it
because then it says other things like
like uh you don't deserve what you have
and that you lied to get there and that
you did this and that
because um that's something else that my
dad did
is that anytime he would get into an
argument
he he was not satisfied
with understanding or even victory he
would only accept
absolute victory and even then
he would not be satisfied like he would
win an argument with my mother and then
just
drill her into the ground afterwards
because he won he was right it was
it was awful and for the longest time
you know i i would uh
equate that like especially growing up i
i would equate that that is the only way
that
a winner is decided is if absolute
defeat
victory and it wasn't until you know i
got old enough
to realize that that was just the lie
that that wasn't true
but you know at that point it was taught
into my like core functions
so it's really hard to resist it
you know so jeremy let me ask you
something when you
have the voice that tells you that you
can't do it
and you overcome that voice
and you succeed and you do better
which part of you is your dad
the voice or your response to the voice
probably the voice the crazy thing is i
think it's both
yeah right because what what do you do
with that voice
you try to crush it you try to prove it
wrong
you try to drive it into the ground to
prove to it
that that voice is wrong yeah
and so what you're doing is you're
cutting out a part of yourself there too
so here's the crazy thing like there's
there's a different perspective
and i think it's gonna be hard but like
just hear me out for a second
which is that you can't do it
or that you may not be able to do it it
like the whole problem here jeremy is
that it's like it's a battle where
absolute victory
is on either side and an absolute
victory against yourself is still a loss
for you
and like what you need to do is learn
how to be in the middle
to recognize for example that you may
not be able to do it
and that's okay because the thing that
i'm hearing that is completely foreign
to you
you understand victory and defeat you
understand triumph and lost
you don't understand forgiveness
for not running yeah
i suppose right it's weird so i mean
i suppose i suppose now you said that i
suppose there's a part of me that
believes that it doesn't exist
of course because you don't no one
taught you right so the military is
gonna teach you a lot of things
it's gonna teach you you know like
how to potentially like be disciplined
and and work hard and stuff like that
it's not gonna uh very few people i've
talked to in the military have learned
forgiveness from the military
and what i'm still hearing is a war
against yourself like the wars we fight
against themselves
ourselves are the ones that even if we
live we win we lose
and what i'm what i'm hearing is you
know you kind of say oh my god i'm
responsible for creating an escape for
so many people because
this was an escape for me and that's
where i'd say like i
i don't think i don't think you're i
mean i'm sure you understand this but
like
i i really encourage you to think about
it is that you can't create an escape
for someone else
right the whole point of d d is like you
guys have to create it together
and it's not you can't guarantee you
can't all the pain
that you experience growing up that dnd
helped you escape from
you want to give that opportunity to
other people awesome
but it is not as a human being you are
entitled to your actions but not the
fruits of your actions right
it's my choice whether i choose to swing
my sword
it's not my choice whether i critical
hit critical fail or hit
that's determined by the dice and the
problem here
is that the burden of responsibility
that you bear
you don't accept that like all you get
to control is whether you roll the dice
what you're putting on your shoulders
is the burden of what the role is
actually going to be
you're saying i want to create this
thing to take away people's pain and
that's why you work so hard
that's awesome but then you beat
yourself up if
for some reason you feel like it's not
working or it's not good enough
like your job as a dungeon master is to
create an opportunity for other people
to come and escape if they want to
but you don't get to actually control
like whether that escape happens or not
but you accept that for yourself you
take that responsibility so oddly enough
i think i think you the burden of
responsibility that you take
is not actually yours to bear
i could see that
i just it's a harder thing for me to
accept i suppose because
as i've gotten better at it
i have been able to do it
and if you can help somebody
then you should sure at least i i feel
at least so yeah so so jeremy i
i can see that you're not quite buying
what i'm selling so that's
so let me explain it in a slightly
different way and then i think we have
to get to the
emotional underpinnings so you're saying
that but i have been able to do it
you're damn right so as you level up
right your thakko gets better
and like the more you level up the more
fact your thakko gets better and the
better your thakko gets the more hits
you see
and yet at the same time even if you're
a level 20 fighter with a thaco of one
it doesn't mean that you're gonna hit
you still do not control
the dice no matter how hard how good you
get
yeah right so i but i think that that
somewhere along the way
you transitioned in your mind and i'd
encourage you to really pay attention to
it when did you start accepting
responsibility for how the dice was
actually going to roll
when did you cross the line between it's
my choice
whether i roll a dice to i have to hit
and i see this in medicine too because
the better doctors become
the more that they start to think that
like the more competent of a doctor
i become the more that i think that i
can hold death at bay
the more people that i save the more i
start to think like i can do this and
i'm i i'm stronger than that
because see how many times i've eaten it
and yet the more victories you have
and the more skillful you become the
more you level up you can't conquer that
you can create a place where people can
come to escape
but you can't give them escape
yeah i suppose and i mean and i know in
my
i guess my heart that that's true so i'm
not i don't disagree with it at all
i just i guess i lament that uh
that i can't do that good in its
entirety
yes and now we're getting someone so
why do you lament that jeremy
well
life is unfair and suffering and we're
given the strength to make it through
that
but others aren't as strong as me so i
can lend them some of mine
and i just do it through d and
i guess i see that if i get strong
enough then i can
remove more suffering
that way and that because i can do it i
should
and then if i can keep doing it then i
and i lament that i know that i am
doomed to fail
an absolute victory and i know that
yeah so can i tell you a story
yeah if you've studied eco guy you may
have heard this one before
so there's a monk that's um
sitting on the banks of a river and he
sees a scorpion
crawling around on the banks of the
river and the scorpion
falls into the river and starts to drown
and the monk
reaches over and he plucks the scorpion
out of the water and the scorpion stings
him he's like
and then he sets it you know on the bank
of the river
and then his disciples are kind of
watching nearby and then
after a little while scorpion wanders
back down to the river
and falls into the river again and the
scorpion picks it up and it stings him
he goes out
and he like puts it safely back and the
third time scorpion goes into the river
third time he plucks it out and a third
time he gets stung
and then one of his disciples is like
master
why do you keep on saving the scorpion
if it keeps on stinging you
and you know what the master says have
you heard this one before
i guess not i said all right i've i i've
go ahead it's so evident version of it
yeah so so the master says well
you know i keep doing it because it's in
my nature to save drowning animals it's
in the scorpions in nature to bite
to sting things that pick it up
and so i i think this is the kind of
thing where like you know i think your
problem jeremy is that you seek absolute
victory
right your problem is that you've shed a
lot of what you grew up with
but the need for absolute crushing
victory so that you never have to deal
with it again
is i mean this is just the nature of
things
you can give people a place to escape
and they're going to come
in and they're going to follow their
nature and you keep doing you
right it's not like i encourage you to
be like the monk and like
do what is your role to do do what is
your ika guy or your dharma
yeah and understand that
if you were expecting and like i think
what you need to learn is like
the satisfaction of or contentment of
rolling the dice
the satisfaction or contentment of
absolutely by all means
offer what you can to help other people
and give the most that you can
to improve other people's lives and if
you can do it should you do it
hell yeah buddy go for it
but don't for a second think that
because you try
you're going to succeed don't for a
second think that your success
is actually in your hands because it
isn't
your effort is in your hands
[Music]
do you bear a burden or do you bear a
burden absolutely but the burden that
you bear is not one of improving their
lives
it's one of creating a space where they
can where they can come to
because let me ask you this like who
bore the burden of responsibility for
your escape
when you were thirteen
my son said bob smith
yeah he taught me dnd
and he was hammered the whole time but i
gotta tell you it was
is the most honest like
he's just a good dad to his son and to
me
so that's probably has something to do
with it too
i think so connect those dots for us
what do you think it has to do with it
jeremy
i guess because whenever uh whenever
andy won with my
friend who's his son whenever he'd do
well
he'd pat his son on the back
and that would be it there'd be no uh
backhand so to speak and what happened
with you jeremy
i won and i didn't need anything else
i didn't even win i guess uh
i guess for once i i just i existed in
a state where it wasn't all extreme
and it wasn't all how am i gonna put it
um
i could speak instead of scream it's the
best way i can really put it
well set yeah
it's just fun man that too it was just
fun too
the most fun i'd ever have up to that
point
oh maybe it's just the right combination
you know
a good role model that didn't knock me
down when i
got stood up peaceful place
quieter nobody was angry
and i was around friends i guess
i thought about that a lot like like
what combination happened
i don't i don't know the answer to that
but
i'm thankful every day that it happened
and
so help me understand when you feel like
you're an imposter what kind of thoughts
go
through your head
visions of myself
either failing or misusing
the position that i have the power that
i have
i suppose or or or the responsibility or
or or
neglect just lots of those things
why do you fear that those things will
come to pass
i don't know uh
because i'm always i guess i'm always
thinking about it
like in the back of my head especially
when i go to sleep
that's i think that's where the
nightmares come from but
what do you mean nightmares oh i
nearly every night i just have
awful nightmares so i don't get a lot of
sleep
granted that's also been helpful because
some of my best monsters
i've made for dnd have come from that
but
can you share something with us
can you share something what have you
made from
literally the stuff of nightmares all
right here we go let me tell you
something
so one time uh i was i was i was
dreaming
that i was like in this warehouse and
like
faces were being like stitched onto my
arms and it was crazy
and it was so vivid and real and they
were like the faces of people that i
knew growing up
and then after that i woke up i
immediately started making the creature
and that's where i made
uh my first like uh like like
face stealing creature which i kind of
based on i looked up mythology of and it
exists in other places
and i really got together and started
tinkering with it a little bit
and then i unveiled it a year later
against the party and it was like one of
the coolest fights they ever had
because it had stance changes and it
would steal like their personality
subtypes and they'd have to fight
against themselves it was awesome
pretty sick sounds pretty awesome man
man it was awesome
but yeah that's that's where most of
them come from
how are you feeling about this
conversation jeremy
uh i don't really talk to anybody
like this about this kind of stuff so
i guess a little anxious um
so when i look at your face i don't see
a whole lot of emotion
like i'm having trouble figuring out
actually the impression that i'm getting
is that you're able to understand with
things intellectually but that you're a
little bit disconnected from
yourself well
i think
maybe the the thing with that is um
my family isn't intellectual
they're very emotional
and while i know that there's a lot of
good that can be done
through that method you know i can
feel for a lot of different people and
stuff like that but
there's just a lot of a lot of
bad things that can come from it as well
um
you know anger being the one i'm most
afraid of
um and sometimes my passion for the
things i talk about kind of eek out and
then i'll get a little emotional that
way
but i don't know too many too many times
when i've allowed myself i guess that
vulnerability it uh
it's just caused something worse to
happen and there's very few people i can
really
mean vulnerability well
part of my job is to remain
neutral and unbiased which means i have
to
to some degree detach myself emotionally
from the situation because while the
dice do
decide many things i decide the
parameters and which the dice are rolled
against and i have to calculate
let varying levels of fairness and if i
while i can't control exactly what the
dice do i can augment them greatly
by the challenges that that person has
to face
so if i'm emotionally attached to
somebody and i don't want to make them
feel bad
then i won't challenge them properly and
then
i make all of their successes and their
failures meaningless
because i don't give them an honest
challenge
it's one of the reasons i don't fudge
dice rolls and some dm's do
i don't do that because the only way
that someone can
know success as if failure is real
at least in d and d um i don't know if
that applies across the board but i know
it applies in d d
and i've got the
plenty of evidence to support that
because that's why my career happened
um so
in that regard i think that's why i uh
when i talk about things like that i
detach myself
emotionally especially also on you know
on stream and stuff because
i you know i know that i'm more of a
public facing
figure now and i feel like i should be
careful with what i say and
emotions make you less careful they make
you more honest i think but also less
careful and
and i suppose also when all things are
considered
i
they're really
strong and i can't
control them if i let them out too much
i think i i hope that
suffices i don't i don't know yeah so
that i'm i'm getting that
from you yeah and i think that's a real
challenge because i i think what you've
got to do jeremy is
not controlled
yeah right so you you've tried to cut
guilt entirely out of your life
that didn't work so well and it sounds
like you have difficulty controlling
them
but what i'm what i'm getting from you
is that like sure i can explain
sort of logic and we can talk about that
go and all that good stuff
but at the end of the day i get the
sense that
there's a certain amount of teflon
coating that you've got
and so we keep slipping off of it
it's slick and and i think if you really
want to get to the root of this imposter
syndrome i mean we can talk about
features of the class and whatnot but
i think at the end of the day like what
i want you to understand is that that
voice is not coming from a rational
place it's coming from an emotion
it's coming from conditioning and if you
want to undo
so like i want you to really think about
this like so the thoughts that
enter our head come from somewhere
it's crazy like the simplest thing is
that you know so you
popped open what looked like some kind
of dr pepper beverage and
and as i saw that my indriyas or my
sense organs
detected something and then generated a
thought
in my brain so sometimes one of the
sources of thoughts is our indriyas or
our sense
organs but thoughts come from more
places than our sense organs they come
from more places than the outside world
sometimes they come from us
and if you think about you know i want
you to think about like a portal
into some you know
lower plane that's spawning denizens and
what happens is you're there and like it
spawns a denizen which is the thought in
your head and it says
i can't do well you're you're gonna fail
and then you smack that denizen down
you beat the crap out of it and then
you're like yeah i won
and then a day later a week later oh
there's the thought again
and you smack that one down too and
you smack that one down too and like we
said imposter syndrome
is adaptive because if we think about it
we're farming xp right
we're just farming these denizens for xp
it's great we're leveling up
but it sucks because you're kind of
fighting these denizens from the lower
plains all the time if you want to get
to the portal that portal is emotional
if you want to close that portal like
you got to go
you can't keep on fighting these
cognitive wars against yourself
and buying yourself until tomorrow
you've got to go to like where this like
you know where this feeling comes from
the idea that like
you have within you a belief and
now i'm going out on a limb so we can
talk about it could be right could be
wrong
so i and i've seen this with people
frankly from
deep south so i grew up when you say
deep south what state are you talking
well arkansas okay so like i grew up in
east texas
and so pretty similar i mean
maybe not quite as deep i mean if well i
grew up in a city that had a population
of 100 000 people but
you know there were there were wizards
and dragons of a different kind down
there too
yeah and um
i think at the end of the day
you know there there's a part of you
that not to be in delicate and i'm going
to use an
inflammatory phrase to see if we get
some traction
there's a part of you that's a
successful twitch streamer and dungeon
master and living the life of your
dreams and you carry with you
a white trailer park trash kind of kid
around
yeah right and and those
thoughts don't come from arcadium
they come from jeremy
and like if you really want those
thoughts like that insecurity about what
you're capable of and the idea that
even if you do well it's going to come
crumbling down around you like that
fundamental
lack of faith is not arcade
because arcade is [ __ ] amazing
everyone knows that
arcadium is the the person that
literally takes
the stuff of nightmares and turns it
into an escape
for people who are suffering in the rest
of their life like how cool is that
i don't know how much more fallen hero
anti-paladin you can get
i i know i don't feel that way but
i i i unders i understand what you mean
yeah and i know that you don't feel that
way so what way do you feel jeremy
i feel uh i feel that you're right about
something that i didn't really think
about
that the persona that i created for
myself
isn't really me
not really i mean it's a part of me sure
but it's not me me
you know not as maybe that's the wrong
way to look at it but
i try to i think i think you know i i
ignore
jeremy and i try to become the person i
made for myself
because that's what i want to be but i
can't just not be
the other part of me and i gotta find a
way to put them together again yep
so now we come to a weird thing that i'm
gonna say
the reason you feel like an imposter
jeremy is because
you are one
right because you're and i know what you
mean by that yeah yeah yeah
yeah right so the reason that like
like there there is a part of you that
could fail
and i think that actually you're gonna
reach just like you said
it's it's the failures that make the
successes worthwhile and it's while you
why you don't fudge roles and in your
own life
you're trying to live a life of pure
success
without carrying that that failure with
you
and you're more than arcadium and thank
god for that you're jeremy too and it's
because like
jeremy is the fuel for arcade
all of your compassion all of your like
intrinsic understanding of your despair
and if you go find a therapist i'm sure
they'll have a field day with your
nightmares
and the you know psychological symbolism
there
yeah and so uh jeremy i think what what
you've got to do is
understand that yeah maybe you will fail
maybe you will people let
maybe you will let people down maybe you
won't win 100
and that's okay that when someone
concedes an argument you don't have to
drive them into the ground
that you don't have to be perfect all
the time if you're running nine
campaigns and you [ __ ] up one day like
that's no big deal you're allowed to
make mistakes
yeah you should have the biggest problem
is that you don't have any mercy for
yourself
there's a relentless you know like
you're trying so hard to prove to
yourself that you're
like it's weird like you have this war
where like you can't tolerate the idea
that you're not
archaedum and that jeremy may be alive
inside you and like that's not a battle
you're ever gonna win because jeremy is
alive and inside you
yeah the crazy thing is that the
conclusion that you draw from that is
that like that's a bad thing i think
it's a good thing i think it's who you
are man
you're not straight 18s bro
you've got a dump stat or two here or
there
should have rolled my stats no it's
never gonna
no i get i get what you mean though yeah
i'm sorry if i seemed resistant to the
things you were saying i didn't mean it
that way or
anything no i it's not something you
have to apologize for it's an
observation
no right i think it's it's it's not i
didn't interpret it as a resistance i
think it's protection
this is like one of those campaigns
where like there's some you know cave
that's sealed off by a bunch of wards
yeah and like eventually you got to take
the wards down and go in
the words are there for a reason they're
keeping the anger at bay
and i think a good place for you to
start is not so much about guilt it's
as you said rage like what are you angry
at man
do you let yourself be angry
i try very hard not to let myself be
angry
there is a portal deep inside a cave
that's warded off
and every week it spawns something and
all that [ __ ] is trapped in there
so i can understand that you're afraid
so i think this is going to be like a
journey
yeah you know where you learn to like
understand your anger and become more
familiar with it
it's your choice whether you want to try
to go there today or not i don't
necessarily think we need to open that
can of worms but if you want to we can
try to explore it
so now we come to another fork in the
road which is mechanics of imposter
syndrome we're exploring your anger
let's do anger because that's the thing
i'm most afraid of
why are you afraid of your anger
i promised myself before i came on here
that i'd be honest completely
and i'd listen to what you say but there
it is again
what are you doing to yourself
i don't know so so so i i okay go ahead
and finish your thought
i was just i was just gonna say that
it's i
i don't know what the rules are and what
can be talked about or anything because
i don't know how it all happens i just
i knew that before i came in here that i
wanted i wanted what help you had to
offer
okay and uh
i'm about to say i haven't really said
on stream before
i wouldn't say anything against tos or
anything that's illegal no no no no no
no no no i'm not going to say that no
it's it's just um
i don't it's something i did that was
really bad and i don't want people to
think
differently of me because of it but
if we're gonna explore the anger then we
have to go to probably the
the moment i became afraid of it
it was when i was 16 years old and um
my mom had just come home from another
drunken binge uh and this was two weeks
after
she had almost uh killed
me my sister and all my friends in a car
accident
um and all the
all the you know the back of my head
got to the point where i couldn't hold
it back anymore
and i uh
god i realized how strong i was then
i uh
i got very angry and it was over
something so
small and petty like it was
it was uh my mom
wouldn't let me go to my friend's house
she wouldn't give me a ride because she
had a headache
and i knew she had a headache because
she had been out drinking
such a petty thing to get this mad over
but
it was just the straw that broke the
camel's back
and it was uh
i i broke things
smashed the car uh
broke windows shattered the door
ah the neighbor that was our landlord
tried to stop me
i meant 10 years at 20 years my senior
uh and i heard him pretty bad
um
we had two friends of the family
that were there these two these two boys
one of them was two years
my junior i hurt him pretty bad
his little brother was faster than me
though i couldn't catch him
and what i remember standing out on the
road
right in front of where we where we were
living
all i could remember was how good i felt
and that terrified me afterwards
because you know i thought
that what i was doing was wrong
but every single part of myself
told me it wasn't
and uh
you know i was 16 young and nobody
taught me anything
and i know now it's you know there are
healthy ways to let out anger and
catharsis and or whatever that is but
all i know is that at the moment
it felt
good to the level that it
i never want to feel like that again
ever
you never want it to feel like that
again
no it was it was it was a
addictive power
like it's a good thing that my father
wasn't in the picture
at that time because i probably wouldn't
have stopped
the only thing that stopped me was uh
was when carlos came back and i saw how
afraid he was of me
and that's when i decided that without a
doubt i was going to join the military
and i was going to be taught how to
control my aggression
and they did do that they taught me the
discipline
so that i would never falter again
never let it out again and
and i also sought some therapy uh
through my
chaplain while i was in there and they
helped
it was more religious oriented but it
did the job for a bit
and uh i got through it
and it hasn't happened since
but that's why that's where that's
that's why i'm afraid of it
good reason to be afraid
i i wasn't even fully grown man
do you have anger still within you
yeah but it it doesn't get that
it doesn't get there anymore i i i found
ways to
to deal with it or not
angry at
i mean i guess a lot of things but
i honestly don't know
so jeremy sometimes people
suffer from depression and
one way to look at depression is that
it's anger directed against the self
do you ever direct anger towards you
yeah how
frequently i mean is that a big part of
the anger that you allow yourself to
feel
well i start to feel it towards somebody
else and i try to
blame myself because i don't want to
hurt someone else
i i guess there's a part of me that
doesn't believe it's my fault but i make
myself
believe that it is so that way it
doesn't
i don't ever hurt anybody like that
again
i can't can't ever let that happen again
i can get behind that and at the same
time
i think you're doing something kind of
tricky to yourself right
yeah so the solution that you found is
to take
everything that other people do wrong
and blame yourself instead
that certainly ain't going to help the
imposter syndrome
right because each insult that is done
to you suddenly you become the one at
fault
yeah and we see this a lot with people
who like
frankly we see this at i mean i see this
a lot when i think about abusive
relationships or codependency
where you know it's it's not his fault
he hit me
it's my fault because i didn't do
something and i made him angry
and in a weird way you know i hear you
blaming yourself in order to protect
other people from your anger
and it's hard because i i think you you
seem to think that if you stop
doing that then what would happen
i don't know that's
i i you know
it's reason why i don't drink or or
do any uh anything that inhibits my
mental facilities
because you know i
i understand that trying to control
everything is bad
but i suppose for better or worse it's
the best way
you know how yeah i convinced myself
that it was
that it was better to suffer from trying
to control everything too much
than the risk that would take if i gave
up too much
well obviously ideally it'd be the
middle but
i haven't found that yet yeah i mean
there you've got it bro
right you're not alone there
is that if you take the blame on all on
yourself then like things in a sense
become
easy because then you're in control
right because if it's all your fault
then
you get to control the role of the dice
yeah but i think this kind of comes back
to like now we see why you have the
burden of responsibility
because you are the dungeon master of
your life you're all powerful
and all things come down to you
and so no wonder you see a burden the
more people that you
interact with the bigger your groups get
each of their responsibilities you take
unto yourself
and it weighs you down because you're
taking the responsibility of 36 people
or 40 people yeah
we haven't even talked about i don't
know if you're in a in a romantic
relationship or not or if you've got
kids or anything like that but
i don't have any kids i've i've been
with uh
i've been with my fiance for 11 years
so i mean there's maybe a whole other
conversation there about
what that relationship is like and
yeah how you feel about that how you
relate to her
i'm assuming it's a woman but yeah yeah
no it is yeah
you know
yeah jeremy do you see a road forward
from here
well
i don't know why i think this way
certainly i i have no precedent
or or or teacher
from my childhood to have instilled this
in me but
at least not that i can remember um
but i see my life getting better
because if i'm completely honest it is
it is bad the imposter syndrome
but all the other asset like facets of
my life are getting better
i don't worry about about like
financial stuff anymore or i don't worry
that i'm wasting my time
you know like like job like uh what's
the word i'm looking for they're like um
i don't know what to call that like i
made a bad gamble with my career
i guess you know um
my family is doing better i helped i
helped
my mom beat cancer so
that kind of stuff's kind of working out
there
um you know it's
my life is not as bad as it was
it has gotten better so i have so i
guess the way forward here is
you know um
seek some therapy that can help me
that can put the time in to unravel this
wilderness um to help me through it
but i mean i
i was i was taught something one of the
few positive things i was taught with my
grandfather
was that
appreciate the water not the fish you
catch
that's what he told me and that really
resonated with me
that fact of the matter is
i'm here where so many people
in my family haven't been anywhere near
where i am
that i can help people that i cannot
worry about money that i can
do something that i'm truly proud of
and it gives me hope that even though
this
voice is in my head that it it won't be
there forever and even if it is
then i'll find a way to manage it
because i i believe in what i do
i think it makes the world a better
place so
so yeah i guess that's yeah so i think
that sounds
great and i want to share a couple of
kind of principles so the interesting
thing is you're saying everything is
getting better on the outside you know
it's it's funny because mental health
like so we're getting better at cancer
we're getting better at heart disease
and we're getting worse at mental health
like why is that so i think that this is
something that
you know people discovered in india a
couple thousand years ago is that
the better the more we take care of
things on the outside
the more that internal problems begin to
arise
and that if you look at like what a monk
does one of my teachers once told me
that anything you accomplish in the
material world is going to be
easy mode compared to like anything you
accomplish in the inner world
any task that you set your mind to
accomplish outside of yourself
is going to be easier than anything you
do within yourself
and it's it's kind of weird but there's
like another really interesting
kind of strange conundrum in the eastern
traditions which is that
you know in the in like ancient india
sometimes some people are familiar with
the caste system are you familiar with
that
there were like casts and yeah somewhat
yeah yeah so just that you're born into
them
exactly right so like there were
forecasts so the the highest caste is
the brahman or the priest
cast yeah below them or the chatrias or
warriors or nobles
they're the kings the warrior cast
the leader cast below them or the
merchants and below them or the laborers
and so the really funny thing is that if
you look at all of the the
the people who founded religions
or are divine or attained enlightenment
call it whatever you want to one is
historical they like
basically started a religion like buddha
for example
um another way to think about them so
they're viewed as divine by some people
but another way to think about it is
they attained this like
sort of superhuman state called
enlightenment
the funny thing is that none of them are
priests
which is kind of weird because they're
the experts in meditation
all of the enlightened beings that come
out of india buddha included
are kings and so then it begs the
question
why don't priests get enlightened if
they're the experts on meditation
and the answer is because you have to
settle your material world
to really fight the internal
it makes sense and what happened with
buddha is he
won the game of life right like you have
a fulfilling career it sounds like
you've got a good relationship sounds
like you're
patching things up and so imposter
syndrome arises
there's a reason why imposter syndrome
arises the most
the more successful you are the more
imposter syndrome gets worse
and i think it kind of speaks to this
age-old principle of like material stuff
is easy compared to internal style
now that may not be entirely true and i
think a lot of times
you know people have very genuine
out outward circumstances case in point
eight year old you 13 year old 16 year
old you
yeah but i i think that
you've got to be careful because just
because things in the outside world
are getting better i think they're
getting better because you worked on
them
and you have to work on this too
and i think a couple of things i think
if you want to see a therapist that's
fantastic
a couple of i don't know how else to do
it really yeah so we don't know how to
work on that
we can teach you right that's what i'm
here
yeah yeah so the first thing is to i'd
say just be aware
of what you're angry at and i'd start
with anger
and i think that there's a have faith
in the structures that you've put to
control your anger
i don't think that like exploring your
anger is going to turn you into 16 year
old you
like you're just a different person
right like you're like you failed your
saving throw back then but like
you're saving throws you're like you're
just way better now
so you're you're not going to be 16
again you're just
the reason you feel like an imposter is
because arcadium is not
entirely you but you're not entirely 16
year old jeremy either
you're both yeah right so you're like
you're like a whole party
of people and there's one person who's
been lagging behind and
and needs your help so start by being
aware
of what you feel and i'd start with
anger
seeing a therapist is i think a good
thing the second thing is that just like
your grandfather said
appreciate the water don't worry about
the fish
and in that way like do the work that
you came here to do
and whether it serves an as an escape
for people or not like that's up to them
yeah right you're going to show up with
your fishing rod
and your bait and your tackle and your
boat and you're gonna sit there and
you're gonna put your
line into the water whether the fish
bite or not is like that's not up to you
like what what's yours to control is the
preparation that you put in and the fact
that you show
up but the second you start
expecting those fish to bite the second
you beat yourself up for those fish not
biting
which i think you do a lot yeah
that's the problem right so notice that
notice that it's a very subtle threshold
and on the outside it looks exactly the
same
what like the two people one person who
expects a fish to bite one person who
doesn't expect a fish to bite
on the outside they look exactly the
same
it's just one of them is okay right huh
but one
gets a pleasant surprise yep yeah and
one of them
at the at best meets their expectation
yeah so i think you've got to start
sharing that responsibility man
it's not yours and that too i think
you've you've described it really well i
think you've
created a compensatory mechanism
for yourself which is like
i'm gonna take the blame so that i don't
have to be angry at other people
and so that's something you really gotta
pay attention to
i think this is where really looking at
your romantic relationship which
you know i think is going to be more
could have a lot of
how can i say this mal adaptations
to it in terms of you know you may be
taking more of the blame than you should
or maybe even like sometimes you lose
control a little bit with her
things like that like because it's just
not tenable sometimes it's unfortunate
but sometimes we show the worst part of
ourselves or we give the worst part of
ourselves
the people that we're closest to
yeah i have infinite patience with
anyone i'm talking about on stream
unfortunately sometimes i'll you know
get upset with my kids
because they can be infuriating
and it doesn't make me you know a bad
dad and it's something i work on but
like just be careful about the people
that are closest to you
yeah and the last thing is in terms of
imposter syndrome so now i'll explain
just a little bit about it so
imposter syndrome tends to arise when
our internal sense of worth
is far outweighed by our external sense
of work
so when the world starts treating us
like we're the hottest shits and slice
of bread
and we feel like we're nothing special
that's when imposter syndrome arises
so it's it's like applying to medical
school versus getting in
there's a huge difference even though
it's like a 24-hour period
where one day you were applying and one
day you'd get in
and and so oddly enough that you know
the the what i've seen working with a
couple of influencers and
and other people basically the more
successful you are the more vulnerable
you are to imposter syndrome
and that internal sense of self-worth i
don't know where you live now but like
spending some time with nature is a
really really good way to get in touch
with yourself
um i guess
not really a lot going well there's uh
there's a park there i could try that
yeah are you in the u.s
yeah i'm in texas do you mind if i ask
what part of texas
uh fort worth uh saginaw yeah so like
there's gotta be like you know i mean
they're like a ton of national parks
in texas yeah you may have something
that's like an hour away or something
like that i mean i'd say go there the
weather in texas is getting real nice
now
yeah it is um and and so
you know i'd spend some time away from
people and kind of like with yourself
that's a good way to kind of think about
it the other thing about imposter
syndrome is that
you know i think lastly like uh jeremy
you need to let that voice be there
and don't try to beat the [ __ ] out of it
you know like it's it's okay to have
doubt about what you're capable of
because like i want you to just think
about that voice in a slightly different
way like that voice is scared
it's a representation of your doubt it's
a representation of your insecurity
and when when you you know when you tell
yours like when
when jeremy comes to arcade and says hey
i'm afraid that we're not going to be
able to do this
and arcadium is like sit the [ __ ] down
and shut the [ __ ] up
right that's not that's gonna just make
that voice come back
later because you haven't done anything
to address its fears
the right way to talk to that voice is
hey man i understand you're scared
and it's okay to be scared and it may
come crashing down around us
and that's okay
all right i'll try that
see now there are feelings
ah yeah what are you feeling
a little sad a little happy
i don't know all of it i guess a little
bit of
a little bit everything what makes you
sad
when i was speaking those words what
were you thinking about
how much suffering i've put myself
through if
if this works then that's all i had to
do
i guess be careful good
so be careful it's not
it's not that's not how it works so this
is the crazy thing that happened so this
is how we hold ourselves back
this is subtle okay but pay a lot of
attention to this
any time we take a step forward
you know what we do we blame ourselves
for not taking it earlier
we this is the way it's funny you know i
was talking at the beginning about
how we're trying to like make more kind
of discreet content on youtube and like
this is one of the pieces that i filmed
this past week
how we turn our successes into failures
because anytime we take a step forward
instead of
being happy with ourselves instead of
being proud of ourselves
instead of giving ourselves a pat on the
back what do we what have we conditioned
ourselves to do
why didn't you do it earlier yeah
so we take what should be a success and
we turn it into a failure
and no wonder we're stuck
yeah cut yourself some slack
jeremy it's it's a long road ahead
learn to talk to yourself see even that
is the same thing
it's the same way that you talk to
yourself don't talk to yourself like
that
instead of what you need to tell
yourself is hey man it's okay that we
didn't learn this earlier
right like
like be the person that tells you like i
don't know if your dad ever told you
stuff like this maybe your grandfather
did but like you need to be like that
like the person that your dad should
have been
for yourself which is that hey man
you're gonna learn at your own pace
some people pick things up slow and some
people pick things up fast you'll get
there in the end
it's so automatic you got to be careful
okay last thing is meditation you
interested in learning meditation
sure if i can i'll try
what do you mean if you can
i'm not very chill
who says he has to be chill to meditate
i guess i was wrong to say that i'm
sorry i didn't mean
no no you're not wrong i'm just
challenging your perception
it's just because you sit still
i said still
why when you said meditation i thought
of like sitting there not doing anything
yeah so you're telling me you're not
good at sitting there or not doing
anything
no no i'm not okay so that's totally
cool so we'll teach you
a form of meditation that does not
involve you sitting there not doing
anything
okay sorry we were talking about monks
and then so i got in my head i was just
gonna
i don't just sit there and not do
anything yeah and so that's a reasonable
so that's why i challenged it jeremy
because that's
a completely reasonable response and
this is one of the things that frankly
infuriates me
is that somewhere along the way we
started to think that meditation was
only one thing
which is that you have to be tranquil
and you have to be still no [ __ ] that
okay i'm gonna blow my nose real quick i
encourage you to do the same
because i'm gonna ask you to breathe
okay this is gonna be kind of weird
okay all right i want you to sit forward
at the edge of your chair
okay and i want you to put your hands
on your knees and kind of lean forward
okay like you ever been sick to your
stomach
oh yeah yeah yeah like you know like
when you when you're sick to your
stomach and you're kind of like leaning
over
like you're trying to figure out if
you're gonna throw up or not yep yep so
that's the
the posture we're gonna we're gonna yeah
okay so
i want you guys to lean forward you all
can do this too i know it sounds it
feels kind of weird so now what we're
going to do is i'm going to
i'm going to demonstrate okay so i'm
going to put my head down i'm going to
let my head hang down
and then i'm going to breathe in and i'm
going to move my head up
and then as i exhale i'm going to come
back down
okay okay all right we don't need to sit
still
okay so head down and let your head hang
just feel that for a second okay just
let your head
really hang down sponsored by audio
technica
and now breathe so breathe in through
your nose
big breath and bring your head up
and then down
again
and out
three more breaths at your own pace
hmm
you're done just let your head hang
now we're going to do five more deep
breath
in go
now
in
out
last one
in and
out
now we're going to do the last round
last version
now we're going to do is we're going to
use our back too so i want you to hunt
your back
and then as you breathe in you're going
to move your head up and then you're
going to
raise your back and then as we breathe
out we're going to compress
and move our head down okay
okay okay so start from the
you know curve your back let your head
hang
and begin deep breath in
and then out
in as your head comes up straighten your
back and then curve the other way
all the way back and out
again deep breath in
head is up back straightens back curves
head is all the way
back and out
head starts to curve forward back starts
to straighten and then down
and then two more rounds
out
now with this last round really pay
attention to the signals in your body
and now sit up straight when you're done
how do you feel
yeah pretty good actually
yeah you gotta get gotta get that so
jeremy your emotion
is gonna be locked up not only in your
mind but in your body
so you gotta get that body moving
it's not just exercise so overwhelming
evidence suggests that mind body
practices
are superior to exercise when it comes
to physical and mental health
even things like arthritis tai chi is
superior to exercise
and it's not just about what you do with
your body it's about what you do with
your mind
and if you don't like to sit still don't
sit still
what were you thinking about or what was
your mind doing or focusing
on when you were doing the practice
nothing just there you go who's bad at
meditation now my dude
okay right yeah
that's the point to enter a no
mind state because the more time we
spend in a no mind state
imposter syndrome can't exist there
literally
it's thoughts it's emotions and the more
that you focus on the sensations in your
body
when you open yourself up when you start
to
channel your piranha and clean it out
okay i see what you mean so for you
it's not so much about meditating for
enlightenment it's really about
balancing your prana or your vital life
force
what's the uh
what's that clap the tension tension is
the two e class right
yeah yeah yeah these are like kenshin
exercises
it's nice to talk with a fellow boomer
who understands 2e because like i think
too he's the best system man
oh man oh it's so good
see here here's the interesting thing
everyone thinks like nowadays everyone's
like
caught up in balance and like tui wasn't
balanced at all but back in the day it
wasn't about balance it was about flavor
yeah haste aged you a year yeah dude
those are the days right like that [ __ ]
so good yeah every time you cast haste
you get aged for a year feels bad man
but that's the price you gotta pay
i'm human [ __ ] i'm elf nice
[Laughter]
that system was so broken man
being a bard you had to be three classes
leveled at the same time
uh yeah like a prestige class
it's good stuff no paladin there was no
such thing as a prestige class until you
do
well duel class is what you get and that
came out in uh
yeah dual class was op man yeah yeah
yeah
most op you can get because humans could
switch to a class
and then everybody else had yeah yeah
yeah humans were so op
stupid cheating humans do whatever they
want yep
yeah man they lived 40 years teehee
yeah cool dude so you you run 5e games
or what
oh i mean i
uh i've ran everything i i've i've
adverse but right now i run heavily
homebrewed fifth edition games
okay like it's um and i run it in a
custom
setting that i've worked on for well
since i was 13 so 18 years now
wow and yeah oh it's
it's definitely my life's work it's
awesome
that's great man i'm so happy about it
it's
fifth edition is a great system for
accessibility
but it lacks complexity to kind of hold
players in and to give them depth
so what i did was is i like tried to
i tried to augment that missing piece
and add it
through story elements and it's really
been working out i think
pretty pretty good the system still
limits the size of my
of my sandbox but yeah i can at least
build high
so it's pretty good yeah that's cool man
well listen dude
like best of luck to you thanks a lot
for coming on
um you know good luck with this journey
man because i i think you
you know you don't deserve to treat
yourself this way
for much longer you got to be free from
this man
thanks thanks for all your help
you're very welcome man good luck to you
you really did help
i hope so man take care yeah
all right see you later